README.md, before:

# Experiment (Source Engine Mod)

<div align="middle">

![Experiment Redux logo](./logo.png)

**🐕 It's a dog-eat-dog world out there, and these dogs have guns.**

</div>

## Requirements

- Source SDK 2013 Multiplayer Base (Installed through Steam)
- Visual Studio 2022 (or newer)
- [Visual Studio 2013 (for the Source SDK 2013 solution)](https://archive.org/details/en_visual_studio_community_2013_with_update_5_x86_dvd_6816332)

[&raquo; See the Source SDK 2013 documentation for more information.](https://developer.valvesoftware.com/wiki/Source_SDK_2013)

## Getting started

1. Go into the `src/` directory and generate the Visual Studio solution.

    ```bash
    cd src
    creategameprojects.bat
    ```

2. Copy the `.env.example` file to `.env`.

    ```bash
    cp .env.example .env
    ```

3. Fill the `.env` file with the described values

4. Next run the `setupprojects.sh` script to modify the Visual Studio project files and solution.

    ```bash
    ./setupprojects.sh
    ```

    _This sets up debugging and enforces the correct dependencies of the client & server projects._

5. Open the created `experiment.sln` solution in Visual Studio 2022 (or newer).

    > [!WARNING]
    > Despite building in Visual Studio 2022, the Source SDK 2013 solution requires Visual Studio 2013 to be installed.

6. Build the solution in `Release` mode.

7. After the build is complete make a symlink from the `game/experiment` directory to your `steamapps/sourcemods` directory. E.g:

    ```bash
    mklink /J "C:\Program Files (x86)\Steam\steamapps\sourcemods\experiment" "<path to this repo>\game\experiment"
    ```

8. To setup the game mod directory, run:

    ```bash
    ./tools/setup-game.sh
    ```

## Documentation

We build and present the Experiment Developer Documentation using [mkdocs-material](https://squidfunk.github.io/mkdocs-material/).

- [Read our conventions](./docs/general/conventions.md)

### Requirements

- Python 3.8 or newer

### Installation

1. Install the required Python packages.

    ```bash
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

2. Start the development server.

    ```bash
    mkdocs serve --dirty
    ```

    _The `--dirty` flag is used to make live-reloading only rebuild the changed_
    _files, rather than the entire site. This is useful for faster development._

3. Open the documentation in your browser @ [http://localhost:8000/experiment-source/]

## Extras

<details>

<summary>Updating from Source SDK 2013</summary>

1. Switch to the `master` branch.

    ```bash
    git checkout master
    ```

2. Ensure that the upstream repository is added as a remote.

    ```bash
    git remote add upstream https://github.com/ValveSoftware/source-sdk-2013
    git remote set-url --push upstream DISABLE
    ```

3. Fetch the latest changes from the upstream repository.

    ```bash
    git fetch upstream
    ```

4. Merge the changes from the upstream repository into the `master` branch.

    ```bash
    git merge upstream/master
    ```

5. Resolve any merge conflicts, if necessary.

6. Push the changes to this forked repository.

    ```bash
    git push origin master
    ```

7. Switch to the `experiment-main` branch.

    ```bash
    git checkout experiment-main
    ```

8. Merge the changes from the `master` branch into the `experiment-main` branch.

    ```bash
    git merge master
    ```
</details>

<details>

<summary>Attaching the debugger manually</summary>

This should not be necessary if you've run the `setupprojects.sh` script.

More instructions can be found here: [check the official docs and use values like this:](https://developer.valvesoftware.com/wiki/Installing_and_Debugging_the_Source_Code)

Setup the debugger with the following values:
> - Command: `C:\Program Files %28x86%29\Steam\steamapps\common\Source SDK Base 2013 Multiplayer\hl2.exe`
> - Command Arguments: `-allowdebug -dev -sw -game "C:\Program Files (x86)\Steam\steamapps\sourcemods\experiment"`
> - Working Directory: `C:\Program Files %28x86%29\Steam\steamapps\common\Source SDK Base 2013 Multiplayer`

</details>

Commit message:

formulate idea about experiment as a platform

README.md, after:

# Experiment (Source Engine Mod)

Initially this repository mainly worked towards creating a Source Engine mod
called "Experiment". It is a multiplayer mod that is based on the Source SDK 2013.

&raquo; [🕹 Read more about Experiment in the Garry's Mod gamemode repository](https://github.com/luttje/experiment-redux)

An alternative idea that arose during development is that Experiment could be
used as a platform for creating Source Engine mods. This would allow developers
to create their own mods based on the Source SDK 2013, but with Lua scripting
support and other features that are not present in the original SDK.

&raquo; [💡 Read more about Experiment as a platform in the Developer Portal](https://luttje.github.io/experiment-source/general/)

<div align="middle">

![Experiment Redux logo](./logo.png)

**🐕 It's a dog-eat-dog world out there, and these dogs have guns.**

</div>

## Requirements

- Source SDK 2013 Multiplayer Base (Installed through Steam)
- Visual Studio 2022 (or newer)
- [Visual Studio 2013 (for the Source SDK 2013 solution)](https://archive.org/details/en_visual_studio_community_2013_with_update_5_x86_dvd_6816332)

[&raquo; See the Source SDK 2013 documentation for more information.](https://developer.valvesoftware.com/wiki/Source_SDK_2013)

## Getting started

1. Go into the `src/` directory and generate the Visual Studio solution.

    ```bash
    cd src
    creategameprojects.bat
    ```

2. Copy the `.env.example` file to `.env`.

    ```bash
    cp .env.example .env
    ```

3. Fill the `.env` file with the described values

4. Next run the `setupprojects.sh` script to modify the Visual Studio project files and solution.

    ```bash
    ./setupprojects.sh
    ```

    _This sets up debugging and enforces the correct dependencies of the client & server projects._

5. Open the created `experiment.sln` solution in Visual Studio 2022 (or newer).

    > [!WARNING]
    > Despite building in Visual Studio 2022, the Source SDK 2013 solution requires Visual Studio 2013 to be installed.

6. Build the solution in `Release` mode.

7. After the build is complete make a symlink from the `game/experiment` directory to your `steamapps/sourcemods` directory. E.g:

    ```bash
    mklink /J "C:\Program Files (x86)\Steam\steamapps\sourcemods\experiment" "<path to this repo>\game\experiment"
    ```

8. To setup the game mod directory, run:

    ```bash
    ./tools/setup-game.sh
    ```

## Documentation

We build and present the Experiment Developer Documentation using [mkdocs-material](https://squidfunk.github.io/mkdocs-material/).

- [Read our conventions](./docs/general/conventions.md)

### Requirements

- Python 3.8 or newer

### Installation

1. Install the required Python packages.

    ```bash
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

2. Start the development server.

    ```bash
    mkdocs serve --dirty
    ```

    _The `--dirty` flag is used to make live-reloading only rebuild the changed_
    _files, rather than the entire site. This is useful for faster development._

3. Open the documentation in your browser @ [http://localhost:8000/experiment-source/]

## Extras

<details>

<summary>Updating from Source SDK 2013</summary>

1. Switch to the `master` branch.

    ```bash
    git checkout master
    ```

2. Ensure that the upstream repository is added as a remote.

    ```bash
    git remote add upstream https://github.com/ValveSoftware/source-sdk-2013
    git remote set-url --push upstream DISABLE
    ```

3. Fetch the latest changes from the upstream repository.

    ```bash
    git fetch upstream
    ```

4. Merge the changes from the upstream repository into the `master` branch.

    ```bash
    git merge upstream/master
    ```

5. Resolve any merge conflicts, if necessary.

6. Push the changes to this forked repository.

    ```bash
    git push origin master
    ```

7. Switch to the `experiment-main` branch.

    ```bash
    git checkout experiment-main
    ```

8. Merge the changes from the `master` branch into the `experiment-main` branch.

    ```bash
    git merge master
    ```
</details>

<details>

<summary>Attaching the debugger manually</summary>

This should not be necessary if you've run the `setupprojects.sh` script.

More instructions can be found here: [check the official docs and use values like this:](https://developer.valvesoftware.com/wiki/Installing_and_Debugging_the_Source_Code)

Setup the debugger with the following values:
> - Command: `C:\Program Files %28x86%29\Steam\steamapps\common\Source SDK Base 2013 Multiplayer\hl2.exe`
> - Command Arguments: `-allowdebug -dev -sw -game "C:\Program Files (x86)\Steam\steamapps\sourcemods\experiment"`
> - Working Directory: `C:\Program Files %28x86%29\Steam\steamapps\common\Source SDK Base 2013 Multiplayer`

</details>
